---
title: 1984 review
date:  2017-09-03
tags:  book, review
tldr:  A nightmarish vision of the future.
---

The first half of this book was gripping and the second half was unpleasant to
me, but I had to see how it ended.

1984 is an oft-referenced book when tech writers and privacy-conscious people
talk about governmental encroachment upon citizens' privacy and abuses of power
to obtain private information. And Facebook (haven't been a fan for some time).
By the way, there's going to be slight spoilers moving forwardâ€¦



Get ready!



The story follows a man, Winston Smith, living in what could only be called a
"negative utopia" in the year 1984 (the book was published in 1950). The
country he lives in, Oceania, is controlled by the Party and the Party quite
literally rewrites history. As far as anyone knows, the Party invented
steamboats and airplanes and everything else. Those born before the formation
of the Party know the truth but it doesn't matter. Questioning otherwise
results in sure death. Winston's only purpose in life is to rewrite facts
whenever the Party deems it necessary. If there was a speech in which the Party
claimed something and recorded facts said otherwise, those recorded facts (in
the form of newspapers, books, video, &c) were subsequently destroyed and teams
of people would recreate the aforementioned media to "prove" the Party was and
always is right in all things.

Prime example: in the beginning of the story, Oceania was at war with Eurasia
and Eastasia was their allyâ€¦only, the opposite was declared later at a war
rally *mid-speech* and the populace went with it. "The enemy" tricked people
into putting up posters of their enemy instead of their ally and that "proved"
just how diabolical they were (nevermind the fact that thousands of people were
*just* cheering for Oceania and Eastasia). Winston and everyone else in the
Outer Party worked several 16 hour days to remove any mention of prior facts.
Knowing something to be false, yet believing in it anyway is referred to as
*doublethink*. If the Party said 2 + 2 = 5, *you'd better believe it, or else*.

Citizens caught by the Thought Police for *crimethink* (anything remotely
negative about or opposing the principles of the Party or "Big Brother") get
sent to a building called "Ministry of Love", where they are tortured and
starved before being mentally broken down so brainwashing can take hold. Once
these people are released, they "live" out their lives doing menial work before
eventually getting a bullet in the back of their head.



I don't think I'm doing a good job selling you on this book, especially
considering how I mentioned how unpleasant I found the second half. Bear with
me here. There was *one* neat thing and that was the creation of a new
language, *Newspeak[1]*, which dealt with the merging of words (and eradication
of others) to simplify English. Of course, any words that might inspire a
revolution of some sort were abolished (as well as the concept of freedom).
Can't have people using a language created by the Party to overthrow them.
Talk about a slap in the face!

Similarities of American society today and the dystopia of Oceania weren't
difficult to see. In fact, they jumped out at me. Fake news, alternative facts,
and blind followers of Drumpf[2] who regularly engage in doublethink. Quite
frankly, I found it terrifying. Thankfully, we don't live in a world where the
depressing society of Oceania could thrive. No one entity has control over data
and knowledge (doesn't stop 'em from trying though). If nothing else, 1984
serves as a cautionary tale of what *could* happen if everyone lost their damn
minds and subsequently decided they didn't care.

If you like reading about oppressive dystopias, 1984[3] is the book for you. ðŸ•¸



---

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newspeak
[2]: https://youtu.be/DnpO_RTSNmQ?t=20m53s
[3]: http://amzn.to/2vUVoiH
