---
title: Nintendo Switch review
date:  2017-03-18
tags:  gaming, review
tldr:  You're gonna wish you weren't on the fence about buying one at launch.
---

In the two weeks since I left GameStop eagerly waiting to get home and unbox
my console, the Nintendo Switch has been *such* a joy to use. I waited two
weeks to write this review so I could accurately depict how it fits into my
everyday. Before I start the review though, I figured I'd run through my
launch night.



## Midnight Launch

üì∏[I was the first customer in Boston to get a Switch][IMG1]

In an effort to make the midnight launch go as smoothly as possible, GameStop
required people to get a receipt with their pre-order earlier in the day and
they were numbered so people would know where to stand in line. As people on
the Internet say, "FIRST!!1!". The guy behind me got to the midnight launch
before I did and was wondering who had the number one receipt. I thought it
was pretty funny.

üì∏[Line to the door and then some][IMG2]

I went to the midnight launches of the DSi and 3DS. Those launches had
*nothing* on this one. When I left, the line was to the door and then some. It
was a *hella* windy night and I'm glad we didn't have to wait outside.

üì∏[Lucky mofos to snag a Switch][IMG3]

The people on the other side of the store didn't have a pre-order, but they
snagged the 13 or so extra Switch consoles this GameStop had for launch. As I
waited to get the aforementioned receipt, a couple realized that someone in
GameStop allowed those 13 people to reserve the right to buy the limited
Switch consoles and the couple were highly upset, to say the least.
Apparently, that wasn't supposed to happen until 6pm. GameStop's gonna
GameStop. ü§∑üèæ‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è

üì∏[Double-sided Zelda poster][IMG4]

As a launch bonus, everyone got a free Zelda poster. I should put this up at
some point but I'm still unsure about which side I like most. As soon as I got
my bag of goodies, I left the store ASAP. I was stopped by someone in line for
an impromptu Facebook Live interview. That was weird but two random people
know who I am now! Since you got this far, here's a video:



## Initial Setup

üì∏[Such gaming, much fun][IMG5]



## The Review

I didn't truly appreciate the Wii U's GamePad until my girlfriend asked me if
I was done playing Deus Ex: Human Revolution. I was hours deep into playing
and she had shows to watch. With the press of a button, I *switched* my
attention from the TV to the controller I already had in my hand and walked to
my desk a few feet away. Confused, she asked if I was mad at her. Of course I
wasn't, I was still playing Deus Ex! I guess you could say my gameplay was
augmented.

For the uninitiated, the Wii U allowed you to swap between the GamePad and the
TV for playing most (if not all) games. In a household where there was only
one TV at the time, it was amazing.

With the Switch, that appreciation came a helluva lot quicker. I have a roving
10-month-old who likes to wreak havoc and while my girlfriend was gracious
enough to let me spend the entire first weekend with the Switch relatively
undisturbed, the boy needed to be watched when mom was busy. While playing
Zelda, I was asked to watch the boy for a couple minutes so I took the Joy-Con
out of the charging grip[1] (*highly* recommended) and onto the sides of the
Switch, which I then took out of the dock and walked downstairs. After making
myself a human fence to block the boy from roaming elsewhere I continued
playing.

Seamless!

üì∏[The super portable][IMG6]

I bought a Nintendo GameBoy fanny pack from eBay after seeing someone post an
old ad for it in /r/NintendoSwitch[2]. I wasn't sure if the Switch would even
fit but it does! You'll have to detach the Joy-Con, of course. Since the
weather is frigid at the moment, I've been using my hoodie[3]'s pouch to
transport my Switch. When the weather gets warmer, the fanny pack will make an
appearance. I also have an Animal Crossing bell pouch that I purchased from
Etsy but I like the fanny pack more.

I think the *super* portable nature of the Switch is going to make gaming
happen in unexpected places, and more often. I'm looking forward to having
impromptu Splatoon 2 battles in an airport or Street Fighter II matches in a
line for food trucks.

üì∏[Charging on the go][IMG7]

Being a home console that's also portable, AAA-type games like the new Zelda
consume a LOT of power. As a result, the battery life isn't great (I've gotten
roughly three hours of Zelda gameplay on a single charge). It doesn't seem
that much different from the battery life of a 3DS when playing Super Smash
Bros. You'll get a notification that the battery level is low but I usually
ignore that until I see it a second time. If I'm in transit, I use my Anker
charger[4] to keep gaming.

For me, the battery life hasn't been an issue and that's because I have a
laptop with USB-C charging[5]. Whether I'm at home or at work, I *always* have
a charger (I bought two because I kept leaving my then sole charger at home).
The addition of yet another popular device with USB-C charging in the global
marketplace makes me confident that the future of a single port for aÃ∂lÃ∂lÃ∂
most electronics will come to fruition relatively soon. Early adopters like
myself have to deal with buying temporary plugadoos and such but hey, that's
so *you* don't have to!

üì∏[An excellent purchase decision][IMG8]

I wasn't sure if I would come to regret buying grips[6] for the Joy-Con but
after a *single* Snipperclips play session, I can honestly say it was a
*fantastic* purchase decision. The Joy-Con feel decent without it but with my
Jack Skellington-esque fingers, I definitely appreciated the classic
controller feel of the grips. My girlfriend has much smaller hands and will
not play Snipperclips without them.

üì∏[Love the build quality][IMG9]

The build quality of the Switch is awesome. It's also incredibly light,
suspiciously so. You'd think it'd weigh more for what it does. The kickstand
on the back is plastic and detachable. It's designed to be easily replaceable
and that's awesome because it would suck if you had to replace the console
because of it.

There are fan vents on the top of the device and it occurred to me after week
one of owning it that I've never heard fan noise. When I've thought to touch
the top of it during a lengthly play session I did feel heat and had to put
the Switch up to my ear to hear fan noise. I've had a screen protector since
day one and somehow let an errant wisp of fabric get in but I don't care
enough to fix that niggling issue.

üì∏[dbrand skin for Nintendo Switch][IMG10]

I'm sad that dbrand won't be making Switch skins[7]. This is the design I came
up with, to match the awesome marble skin on my MacBook Pro[5]. Welp. At least
dbrand is an awesome company.

üì∏[Great interface][IMG11]

I've taken so many screenshots of the interface (except in eShop, that's not
possible there) and I've got one request for Nintendo. *Please* make it
possible to hide the UI in games when taking screenshots! I complained about
this to @jessety[8] and he informed me that you can hide most of the UI in
Zelda (you'll just see your heart containers). I just hope more games adopt
the "Pro HUD" option that Zelda provides.

I'll end this review with the real reason I bought a Switch: Splatoon 2! If
you hadn't guessed by the decal on the back of my Switch, I'm a *huge* fan of
the original for Wii U. üï∏

üì∏[The reason I bought a Switch][IMG12]



---

[1]: http://amzn.to/2n522S7
[2]: https://www.reddit.com/r/NintendoSwitch
[3]: https://www.instagram.com/p/BOLHZpjhE1F
[4]: http://amzn.to/2mFFy6R
[5]: </2017-01-07-macbook-pro-review.txt>
[6]: http://amzn.to/2n4lUVx
[7]: https://www.reddit.com/r/NintendoSwitch/comments/5xc5si/warning_do_not_skin_your_nintendo_switch
[8]: https://twitter.com/jessety

---

[IMG1]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-a.jpg
[IMG2]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-b.jpg
[IMG3]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-c.jpg
[IMG4]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-d.jpg
[IMG5]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-e.jpg
[IMG6]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-f.jpg
[IMG7]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-g.jpg
[IMG8]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-h.jpg
[IMG9]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-i.jpg
[IMG10]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-j.png
[IMG11]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-k.jpg
[IMG12]: https://üî•.pixels.wtf/blog/image/2017/nintendo-switch-review-l.jpg
