---
title: Why the Job Search Sucks
date:  2018-01-11
tags:  life, rant
tldr:  It's not your fault
---

I have been unemployed since November 1st, *four days* after my wedding. The
company I was working for went out of business for various reasons I won't get
into but at least I got one last paycheck! This was the first time in my life
that I'd been let go from a job. I'd either leave on my own accord or be fired
(this only happened twice, once in my professional career). I went into this
new development in my life fairly non-plussed because I've *always* been able
to find work relatively quickly. Of course, life has a way of reminding you
not to get comfortable. *Hooray*.



## Rounds of interviews
Lots and *lots* of rounds. I really don't understand why this is necessary.
Here's what what makes sense to me:

1. Phone screen
2. Tech screen
3. Meet the team

After this, shouldn't you *know* if you want to work with someone or not?
What's wrong with your process that you need *more* than three steps? Last
month, I ran an interview *gauntlet* with a company I (previously) admired. I
had a video interview with HR and a phone interview with *another* person from
HR days later. Then, I had to clear my entire Friday from *9am to 6pm* for
*five* video interviews with the shortest one being 45 minutes. I thought I
aced it! I even wrote a tutorial on how to use one of their products and
integrated said product into some of my projects. I was told that I'd hear
back from someone in a few days and if not, to email.

Stop me if you've heard this before.

I waited. Emailed. Waited. Emailed again. By this point, another week passed
and I was *pissed*. I even checked my mail server to see if messages were l
st in the ether. *Nothing*.

Companies don't seem to realize that every interview is an investment of time
and emotion for the applicant. I apply for positions where I feel I can make a
positive impact and work on an awesome product or help an idea form and gain
traction. *There is no excuse for not communicating.* While these companies
are internally deciding who to vet next, they can at least send a templated
reply back. I don't care if it looks like:

> Dear Paul, Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha
> hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha NO.

At least I know not to waste my time waiting on you.



## Coding/design tests
See also: whiteboarding.

I've *never* met someone who performs exceptionally well with thinking on the
spot in front of people they've never met when the grand prize is gainful
employment. Not only are you thinking about whatever question you've been
asked to demonstrate your thought process on, you're also thinking about what
they might want to see. Do you have your back turned too much? Should you
over-explain to "prove" you fundamentally understand the concept(s)? What
happens if you don't understand the question? Do they take "points" off for
that?

That shit is incredibly stressful.

You know what I love about coding tests? Finding a use for one-off code
exercises in my own work so I feel like my time wasn't completely wasted. You
know what else I love about them? Absolutely nothing. These *tests and
whiteboarding are not indicative of your skill level*, they are
*approximations* of what you can do with what is likely to be limited
information and ambiguous scope.

Assuming you are gainfully employed, dear reader, think about your job today:
you (typically) aren't asked to create a solution for something with three
bullet points in a README file with a section for "extra credit ;)".

I recently did one of these tests and yes, I've identified a portion of the
code I wrote for integration in one of my projects. After days of waiting to
hear yay or nay, I decided to email a few hours ago and was told other people
had more impressive code submissions and tech stack cohesion. Makes sense but,
would I have gotten that rejection email today if I hadn't checked in? Next
week? Next month? In my experience, I either don't get that email until at
least two weeks later at the earliest, if ever.

Segue!



## Feedback
It's very rare that you'll get helpful emails on how you can improve your
chances in interviews from the very companies that rejected you, especially
if you ask for it. This is at odds with the initial tone and type of
communication that's exchanged when figuring out if you two are a good fit.
"Other candidates were a better fit, feel free to apply again in the future."
Um, okay, but why would I do that when *I don't know why I wasn't a fit to
begin with*? I view these canned statements as passive aggressive and make a
note of avoiding the company and their products going forward.



## How to deal
Depends on the person.

For me, open world video games are a great outlet for expending frustration
and allows me to cool down. I also enjoy writing and that's why I've written
this post. Having my time wasted is one of my chief pet peeves and it's an
unavoidable part of the job searchâ€¦falling in love with a product and/or
company only to later be rejected, dismissed, and ignored is a *soul-crushing*
exercise, one that we subject ourselves to because we quite literally don't
have a choice.

It fucking sucks.

I was at a seminar today about dealing with stress in the job search and I
heard from people over the age of 40 expressing their experiences and
frustration with age bias. They do well with initial email contact and phone
interviews but when it's time for the in-person interview, they see and feel
quite accurately that their age is what prevents them from moving forward in
the process. I feel bad for these people because their only enemy is time.
Rather than hire the best, some companies look to hire recent graduates so
they can 1) be overworked and 2) offered less pay. They don't know what they
don't know and certainly won't ask questions. Older people and those with
experience would never put up with that.

In the seminar we were told:

> *You are not at fault for being in the situation you are in.* External
> forces changed your lives in a (mostly) negative way but, it's up to you to
> deal with it in a productive way.

Have you ever tried guided meditation? It was the first time my brain was
silent outside of sleepâ€¦it was weird. I almost fell asleep, haha! I'm going to
try practicing mindfulness[1] more.



## Upsides?
Losing my job and not finding a new one shortly after has awarded me something
that's been lacking in me for quite some time, and that is *focus*. As I
mentioned in my last post[2], I put a stop to all but one of my projects and
am focusing on just one[3].

Seeing my year-old child grow and learning new words, colors, and numbers has
been a fascinating experience. He'll randomly point at something and say
whatever he's looking at: "Red! Nine! A! Lellow!" (Yellow) and so on. Pretty
neat.

Constantly retelling my employment history has encouraged me to shorten my
"elevator pitch" so I can at least get that part of the conversation over and
done with quickly. My cover letter has seen *many* shifts and improvements. I
state upfront that I have zero React experience because 99.999999% of tech
companies want someone with 18 years of experience with a four-year-old
JavaScript framework. I'm being facetious here but that requirement is
*ridiculous* for a fad. Writing CSS in JS? *GROSS*.

I redesigned my resume to put my skills upfront (responsive front-end web
design and development, yes I can design *and* code), followed by projects
that utilize those skills, and then experience. As tired as I am of the
bullshit companies put you through in the hiring process, I'm sure companies
deal with all sorts of other bullshit too. I like to think my cover letter and
resume do a very good job of informing potential employers if I'm a good tech
fit. If not, no need to respond! Just keep it moving. Getting me invested in
the conversation, your company and product, and then ignoring me?

*Maaaaan*, go *fuck* yourself. ðŸ•¸



P.S. When I eventually hire people for my own company I'm reading this post
every week to remind myself that applicants aren't just numbers or Post-Its on
a board, they are people with feelings and expectations that they will be
replied to in a timely manner because they have life and responsibilities to
deal with.

P.P.S. This post has garnered more interest than I thought it would on
HackerNews[4]. You can read varying viewpoints ranging from those who've been
in this situation and are employers doing MUCH better than the ones I've
outlined in this post, to people who are just plain dismissive of myself and
others like me. It's a pretty good read regardless, I love discourse.



---

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mindfulness
[2]: </2017-12-31-year-in-review.txt>
[3]: </2017-12-30-who-creates-social-networks.txt>
[4]: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=16127697
